Good morning and happy Easter.
Let's all stand together as our extended family joins with us online.
Let's recite together the Apostles' Creed.
This is our statement of faith.
This is who we are and what we believe at Celebration Church.
We believe in God, the Father Almighty, the Creator of heaven and earth.
We believe in Jesus Christ, His only Son, our Lord, who for us and for our salvation was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary,
suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and was buried.
He descended to the dead, and on the third day he rose again.
He ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of the Father.
He will come again to judge the living and the dead, and his kingdom will have no end.
We believe in the Holy Spirit, the Holy Christian Church, the fellowship of believers, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body,
and the life everlasting.
Amen.
You may be seated.
Good and happy with us this morning.
Glad you have chosen to worship with us this Easter, so glad to see you.
We'll remind you quickly of how we do our offerings now at Celebration Church.
At the end of the service, there will be ushers at the doors.
You can use the envelopes on the seat backs in front of you to put in any cash or checks.
And then you can put that in the buckets on the way out.
A lot of people give online now.
They've signed up for recurrent giving, which is really helpful to us.
Our people use their phones.
You can go use the Celebration Church app, and you can give an offering right off of your phone.
So that's kind of nice.
And thank you for doing that.
We were in Las Vegas a few weeks ago.
Can you tell?
A little sparkly this morning.
Praise the Lord.
All right, so I get to preach the sermon again.
First service, I could hardly concentrate.
I didn't want what was going on because we have a getaway, staff getaway, some of our key pastors coming up and found out this morning our flights had all been canceled.
Delta is bad, but at least Delta will say, we had to change your flights.
Here's what we're offering for other flights.
Let us know.
And they follow up.
United, nothing.
You're done.
So we're on the phone for a good hour or so before I left to preach this morning.
I got here all I was thinking is flights, flights, flights, flights, flights.
So I got that out of my head.
Now I can preach.
Praise the Lord.
Amen.
So Vicki was up here saying, you know, what joins together is the preaching of our lead pastor, Mark Hunger, who typically preaches live.
I said, sometimes I'm half dead.
But first of all, I was half dead.
You know, it's bad when you're sitting in church and the preacher is boring and you're the preacher.
I mean, that's horrible.
That ain't focused here.
What is that ain't talking about?
Anyway.
So next Sunday, we will be gone.
Some of the key coming in is my good friend Nazareth.
If you haven't heard him before, he's a scream.
You'll love this guy.
He's a Palestinian Arab who became a Christian after he came to this country.
He's got a dramatic story.
He's also hilarious.
So he'll do that.
And apparently I got the fight fixed.
It's a little jacked up.
I'll explain it to you guys later.
The Bible, yes, get to the Bible.
Here we go.
Luke the 24th chapter, starting at verse one.
On the first day of the week, very early in the morning, the women took the spices they had prepared and went to the tomb.
They didn't do it the night before because according to the Bible, I mean, for us, the morning is when the sun rises, right?
And then when it goes, you know, then the night and then the next morning, in the Bible, the day actually begins when the sun sets.
Well, I have no idea.
That's why they do it.
So when the sun sets, it's the beginning of the next day.
So when the sun sets tonight, it will now be Monday morning.
So what happened was Jesus was crucified on Friday.
The sun's getting ready to go down.
They're in a panic to try to get him in the tomb right away because they can't do anything on the Sabbath.
He can't move, can't work.
They're very strict about it.
So they quick put him in the tube and they just roll the stone in front of it because they got to get out of there.
because the sun's about to go down.
You're not supposed to do anything on the Sabbath, which is Saturday.
So they didn't prepare the body properly, which is what you're supposed to do.
So they're waiting.
And then as soon as the sun goes down Saturday night, it is now Sunday morning.
That's why they're very early in the morning.
They're up and they're getting the spices and stuff to go properly prepare the body of Jesus.
Well, get there.
And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb.
But when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
And while they were wondering about this, suddenly two men in clothes that gleamed like lightning stood beside them.
In their fright, the women bowed down with their faces to the ground.
But the men said to them, why do you look for the living among the dead?
He is not here.
He has risen.
And then he reminds them, as I told you last Sunday, many times Jesus told them, we're going to Jerusalem, they're going to crucify me,
And then I'm going to rise on the third day.
When they got there, they had no idea what was going on.
In all fairness to them, the Lord had often spoken in riddles and parables and they didn't know what he was saying.
So when he's talking about this, at one point, at one of the gospels, I said, they were curious what he meant by all this.
It was so clear when it happens, they are shocked, they had no idea.
And then the angel says, the son of, remember how he told you
When he was still with you in Galilee, the Son of Man must be delivered over to the hands of sinners, be crucified, and on the third day be raised again."
And then they went, oh, yeah.
So they had no clue what was going on.
And all of a sudden, now it made sense.
The Lord had clearly told them what was going to happen.
So now Lent is over.
The time of reflection, mourning, and fasting is done.
It is now Easter Sunday.
Now we celebrate the resurrection of Jesus.
From the dead, this changes everything.
All right, up until this point, Jesus was this powerful speaker.
They considered him a prophet as they had many prophets in the Old Testament who did wonderful things.
Now, nobody did anything at the scale that Jesus did.
I mean, there were multitudes of people who followed Jesus, thousands upon thousands upon thousands, and Jesus would heal him.
Sometimes it says he would heal him all.
Can you imagine the impact that would have?
Israel's not much bigger than Wisconsin.
You know, you can imagine in Wisconsin, someplace in Wisconsin, there's this guy praying for people, and thousands of Wisconsinites are being healed.
They had cancer, it's gone.
They had leg problems, they couldn't walk.
They were crippled, now they can walk.
They couldn't see, now they can see.
They couldn't hear.
How long would it take for us to hear about this?
I mean,
thousands upon thousands.
And this goes on for three years.
It's a long time.
Everybody knew what was happening.
And as I argued last week, it is often taught that the people celebrated Jesus on Palm Sunday, but were yelling crucify him by Friday.
I maintain it was not the same group of people.
A lot of people believed in Jesus and been impacted by his teaching, but not everybody.
A lot of people who even saw his miracles, who still didn't believe.
The Pharisees, one of them, they saw exactly what was happening.
They didn't believe.
And the Bible says that the Pharisees had ginned up that particular crowd.
So I don't think it was the same bunch of people, but everybody knew about Jesus.
And now he has been crucified.
Everybody's kind of stunned, right?
Because, well, why?
What happened to him?
Because nobody knows, all you know is he gets arrested.
If you find out next week, I get arrested.
You're gonna say, well, he was a good pastor, but obviously, something was off.
Right, you know you would, even if you love me.
Yeah, some of you love me, even if I did do something bad, you still love me.
God bless you guys.
Some all that crowd may be, but most people would just, ah, he had it coming.
So Jesus gets arrested, his crews are like, oh man, that's all I mean, what did he do?
He had to do something.
They don't crucify people for nothing.
Apparently they did.
So, everybody's kind of stunned by all of these events.
But then Jesus is about to be taken into heaven.
He's talking with the disciples.
He says, listen, don't go anywhere.
Don't do anything until the Holy Spirit comes upon you.
The gift my father talked about.
I'm not sure they quite grasped that.
That was either.
They had a hard time grasping most of anything.
So, he goes into heaven and they're waiting in Jerusalem.
And then the day of Pentecost came.
Why am I talking about this?
Because these events are all tied together.
Palm Sunday, Good Friday, Easter morning, and Pentecost, which comes like in six, seven weeks after Easter.
This year it lands on June the 6th.
We will have a big Pentecost Sunday celebration like we did last year and a special Holy Spirit evening where people can get their hands laid on and prayed for all kinds of things.
We're looking forward to that.
And we'll talk more about that.
the closer we get, but all these events are tied together.
This series of events changes the world.
They say, well, isn't enough that Jesus got raised from the dead?
Well, yeah, I mean, it's very powerful and clearly establishes that he's the Messiah.
I mean, other people have been raised from the dead by prophets and stuff from the Old Testament, but they would be raised from the dead, but then they had to die again.
Talk about good news, bad news.
Woo-hoo, you love the end, bad news.
You got to die all over again.
So this is what these people are looking at, but Jesus races from the dead, and He is what we all will be someday.
The Bible says on that last day, all mankind will be raised again from the dead, and we will have to answer out the great judgment.
So Jesus is the firstborn of the dead, the Bible says.
He's the first one that this happens for, and He's permanently risen.
And this is powerful.
It sets us apart from every other religion in the world.
No other religion even claims this.
All right?
Everybody has a lot of profit, person that taught whatever religion it was.
They're a long dead and they have their graves and they visit their graves and say, but that would Jesus.
There is no grave.
All right?
He is risen.
Totally dramatic difference.
But it's still not done.
Something has to happen.
What is it?
It's the coming of the Holy Spirit, which again comes in a few weeks.
We'll be talking about that.
Now, so what happens there are
Of the day of Pentecost comes, the Bible says they're all up there praying because they're just waiting.
They don't know what's going to happen.
They have no idea.
All of a sudden the Spirit of God just floods into the place, just rips through eternity.
The heavens comes in.
They said it's the sound of a rushing mighty wind.
People say, how can we not hear that today?
Well, it's kind of a first time event.
First time the Spirit of God comes in to the whole world.
This had never happened before.
Nobody had really experienced the Spirit of God except for rare individuals.
The Spirit of God would fall on, you know, a guy like Samson or somebody like this or Moses or whatever.
But everybody, they didn't feel what we can feel today.
We can now, as we're singing worshiping the God, there's something different in this room.
If you're a first-time visitor, you've never been to anything like this, whether you believe it or not, at a minimum, you gotta admit there's something in here.
Something's different.
What is the presence of God?
It's the Holy Spirit.
Now God can speak to everybody.
And this is a major, major difference in the world.
It's transformative.
So the Holy Spirit comes flooding in there at Jerusalem and again fills the world.
And these guys are like responding, they're celebrating.
The Bible says they start speaking in tongues.
They are party in big time and making all this racket.
And the Bible says, you know, there's thousands of people in Jerusalem at this time for the feast of Pentecost.
It's a big Jewish tradition.
I won't get into it now, but anyway, so that's why they're all there, and thousands of people hear all this racket, and they come over running, and they see these guys worshiping God, celebrating, speaking in tongues.
They don't know what's going on, and the Bible said, some of them start making fun of them.
Ah, these guys, they're just drunk, and then Peter gets up and preaches.
These men are not drunk, as you suppose.
It's only 10 o'clock in the morning.
Clearly, Peter had never been to Green Bay.
Anyway, you know that hammered us too early.
And he starts to preach to them, and they're all listening.
But what's happening now?
What's different now?
The Spirit of God is there.
So people could hear the truth.
They heard it from Jesus.
Undoubtedly, all of these people had, at one point or another, been affected by what Jesus had done.
Many of them had literally heard him speak, but it didn't take root.
Why?
The Spirit of God was not there to, boom, plant it into their hearts.
So all of a sudden, these guys are, they're preaching about Jesus,
And something now is different.
The Spirit of God is impacting them.
And these words are coming to life and it's changing them as they're listening to these words.
And then says in Acts chapter two verse 38, Peter says, Repent and be baptized.
Every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
The promise is for your children, for you, your children, and for all who are far off.
for all whom the Lord our God will call.
And with many other words, he warned them and pleaded with them, save yourself from this corrupt generation.
And those who accepted the message, his message were baptized, about 3,000 men that day were added to their number.
So he preaches his first sermon, 3,000 people convert.
That's pretty impressive.
All right.
And a little bit later, it says there's 5,000.
So they've baptized 3,000 guys in one day.
I don't know how long that took.
I suppose the other apostles jumped in, but man, that's a lot of guys.
We just had a wonderful baptism service on Wednesday, this Wednesday, last Wednesday in Lent for us.
And we had 30 people be baptized, which was awesome.
Here's a short service about an hour.
If we get to 3,000, it'll be a lot longer service.
But anyway, we'll probably spread it out through the year, 3000.
But wow, what a dramatic impact.
Why?
For two reasons.
One, all these seeds that had been planted into their minds by Jesus were there.
The Holy Spirit comes, it comes alive in them.
Those seeds are immediately bearing fruit.
And the presence of the Holy Spirit is now at work in the world.
Everything changes.
Before this day, people did not experience the presence of God in any real sense.
Now they do.
Something changed.
Something happened.
And now God can take the message of truth and impact people's hearts.
And they immediately responded.
So Christianity just explodes out of the gate at this point.
Again, they had heard, they had seen, many had even experienced the miracles Jesus had done.
Without thousands of people over three years, come on.
I mean, come on, there had to be people who were there.
Yeah, I was sick and he touched me.
It is gone.
But nothing changed in here until the Holy Spirit came in.
God makes it come alive and they hear the message about Jesus and being raised from the dead.
Faith explodes in their hearts and they convert.
All right.
So now Christianity just takes off like crazy.
It's exploding in the beginning.
They were all Jewish men and women.
They really believed that you had to be Jewish to experience God.
If you weren't Jewish, you're just above a chicken and a frog to them.
I mean, it was really strict, this is the way they taught.
You're talking about racism, man, you have no idea.
These people were taught, you are God's people, everybody else is nothing.
And they were very, very strict about it.
And so they didn't even try to reach out to none.
Jewish people.
In fact, early Christianity was considered a Jewish sect, like another denomination, if you will.
They had Pharisees, they had Sadducees, and then they had these Christian people.
They're all Jews, but they were part of this different group.
And it's growing astronomically in the leaders of the day that they're just being blown away, because that's really real fucking on them, right?
We killed this Jesus,
whom everyone I was celebrating right from the dead, and it is the Messiah.
They're in a bad place, and it creates all kinds of problems.
And the heat on these leaders who instigated this is through the roof.
So anyway, they're going along.
And then this happens.
We read about this in Acts chapter 10.
And I want to look at this with you this morning.
It says, Caesarea, there was a man named Cornelius, a centurion in what is known as the Italian regiment.
So he's a Roman
They didn't like the Romans.
The Romans were an occupying army.
They hated the Romans.
But this is a good Roman.
He had learned about the Jewish faith.
He was trying to mimic it as much as he could.
He would worship the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
He was doing good things, giving money to the poor.
He's really trying to view a devout man from a Jewish perspective.
And the Jews really respected this guy.
He was obviously unusual being a Roman centurion, but he really was trying to get right.
This is he and all his family were devout and God-fearing.
He gave generously to those in need and prayed to God regularly.
But he's an Italian, all right?
He's not a Jewish guy.
It says, well, one day, about three in the afternoon, he had a vision.
He distinctly saw an angel of God who came to him and said, Cornelius,
And Cornelius stared at him in fear, I bet.
Wow, what is it Lord?
He asked.
And the angel answered, your prayers and gifts to the poor have come up as a memorial offering before God.
Here's what I want you to do.
Send men to Japa and bring back a man named Simon who was called Peter.
He's staying with Simon the Tanner whose house is by the sea.
When the angel had spoke to him and gone Cornelius called two of his servants and another soldier, a devout soldier, a guy who
also had been impacted by the Jewish faith as he had.
So another devout guy, who's one of his attendants.
And he told them everything that had happened and then sent them to Japa.
Go find this guy named Simon Peter.
Well, about noon the following day, as they were on their journey and approaching the city, Peter goes up on the roof to pray.
He cuts hungry.
He wants something to eat.
Somebody make me a sandwich.
And he's waiting.
And while the meal is being prepared, he falls into a trance.
And here's what he sees.
He sees heaven opened and something like a large sheet being let down to the earth by its four corners.
In the sheet is all kinds of four-footed animals as well as reptiles and birds.
And the voice says to him, Peter, get up, kill and eat.
He's hungry, right?
But the Jews weren't supposed to eat those kinds of animals.
And Peter replies, surely not Lord, I have never eaten anything impure or in clean.
And the voice spoke to him a second time.
Do not call anything impure that God has made clean.
Think about that.
Talk about that a second.
So this happens three times.
And it comes down the sheet.
Get up, kill, eat.
No, it's not clean.
Don't call something unclean that God has made clean.
And so after the third time,
Immediately the sheet was taken back into heaven.
So while Peter was wondering about the meaning of this vision, he's trying to figure out, what does this mean?
The man sent by Cornelius found where Simon's house was and stopped at the gate.
They called out asking if Simon, who's known as Peter, was staying there.
And while Peter was still thinking about the vision, the Spirit said to him, Simon, get up.
Three men are looking for you.
Get up, go downstairs.
Do not hesitate to go with them, for I have sent them.
Why is this important?
Because he's not supposed to go with them.
up to this point.
They had nothing to do with non-Jewish people.
They just didn't.
They stayed away from them.
They didn't connect with them.
They certainly did not eat with them.
They didn't invite them in their houses.
They didn't go into their houses.
It was a strict wall between them.
And again, as I'm saying, we talk about racists and stuff like that.
And racists used to be really rampant throughout the world.
And even in this country,
Those of you geysers like me born in the 1800s, you know, we remember what it was like, right?
Especially our parents and our grandparents.
You know, somebody went the right color or something, and they were just freak out.
You know, I remember when I was first dating Debbie, her German grandmother says, why can't you date someone of your own kind?
And she said, you mean another girl?
No, no, no.
No, no, he's one of those people.
You know, it was just very strange.
So anyway,
And it was very, very intense in this country.
I talked about this a few years ago and read to you from one of the bills from the Grievé Packers, one of the, you know, he'd go for the game and he's got everybody's names and stuff like that.
They still do that today.
Player number 11, so-and-so, here's where we went to school, da-da-da-da.
But if you remember, I was reading to you, they also added what race they were connected to.
Lion Packer, he's from Iowa, he's German.
This guy's Czechoslovakian.
This guy's foolish.
I mean, you wouldn't dare do something like that today.
There's been a dramatic improvement in relationships.
So much so, that's why some of you younger guys, you know, don't ask them, why don't we get more upset about this?
Because man, it's dramatically improved from what it was, wasn't there anything like that before?
But in this case, this is that on steroids.
They had nothing.
They would even try, the Gentiles would try to be nice to the Jews and Jews wouldn't have anything to do with them.
If you ever encounter very, very devout, acidic Jews, which we don't have around here, but it's still that way.
They just won't have anything to do with you.
Some people say, why are some people anti-semitic?
Why do people hate H?
Why do Jews?
Why do people talk like that?
Because they take them off.
They're mean to them.
They don't have anything to do with you.
They won't let you touch them.
It's crazy, crazy stuff.
So it's like this.
This is intense.
And so he says,
Don't hesitate to go with them.
Well, Peter went down and said, I'm the one you're looking for.
Why have you come?
God never told him why they were there.
He just said, don't call anything unclean that I say is clean.
And the man said, we've come from Cornelius the Centurion.
He's a righteous and God-fearing man who is respected by all the Jewish people, okay?
A holy angel told him to ask you to come to his house so that he could hear what you have to say.
And then Peter invited the man into the house to be his guest.
which is a big no-no, but okay, you just had this vision, all right, come on, come in guys, don't touch nothing, come on in.
So the next day, Peter starts out with him, and some of the believers from Jaffa went along, probably just to make sure he doesn't touch anything, you know, they're so strict, you have no idea.
So the following day he arrives in Cesaria, Cornelius was expecting them, and it called together his relatives and close friends, a whole bunch of people are there.
As Peter entered the house Cornelius met him,
fell at his feet in reverence.
Peter said, get up.
I'm just a man myself.
That's why we don't pray to dead people.
There's a whole other sermon.
All right.
So while Peter was talking with him, he goes inside and found a large gathering of people.
And here's how he starts out.
You are well aware is against our law for a Jew to associate with or even visit a Gentile.
So he starts out by saying, you know, I'm really not supposed to be here with you people.
It's kind of a bad way to start a talk when you insult everybody that's sitting there.
But that's how he starts out.
And that's what they have anything to do with you.
No, I'm lost.
But God has shown me that I should not call anyone impure or unclean.
So when I was sent for, I came without raising an objection.
I did what I was told.
He gets there and says, so may I ask,
What do you want?"
So he doesn't go there thinking, I'm going to share the good news about Jesus with these people.
That's the furthest thing from his mind.
They're non-Jews.
We don't deal with creepy crawly people, all right?
Why are you here?
So Cornelius said, look, three days ago, I was in my house praying at this hour, three in the afternoon.
Suddenly a man in shining clothes stood before me and said, Cornelius, God has heard your prayer and remembered your gifts to the poor.
sent to Japa for Simon, who is called Peter.
He is a guest in the home of Simon the Tanner, who lives by the sea.
So Peter's probably going, wow, how do they even, how do they even know where I am, right?
These people came and got me, because what this angel said, gave his address.
So I said for you immediately, he says, and it was good of you to come, even though he just insulted us, we're good to see him.
Now, we're all here in the presence of God to listen to everything the Lord has commanded you to tell us.
Well, the Lord had commanded him anything.
It just shows up.
And it starts to dawn on him, what's going on?
And he says, well, I now realize how true it is that God does not show favoritism, but it accepts from every nation the one who fears him and does what is right.
So what he's saying in essence, you're a good guy, you're not Jewish, but you're almost Jewish.
Because you're almost Jewish, I guess God's like you, basically.
Now you know the message, now check this out, what are you saying?
You know the message God sent to the people of Israel announcing the good news of peace through Jesus Christ, whose Lord overall, you know what has happened throughout the province of Judah, Judea, beginning in Galilee after the baptism that John preached.
So he starts out by saying, you guys all know this.
Now they're not even Jews.
They're Romans.
He knows they all know what's been going on.
because this was not done in a closet.
What Jesus did was huge.
Thousands upon thousands of people's lives were transformed, healed, miraculous stuff had happened, even though they didn't get it by faith, but still they were seeing it.
They all knew about Jesus, even the non-Christians.
Anywhere in that area knew about Jesus.
Not only did they know about Jesus, they knew about John the Baptist, he says.
John the Baptist was a major figure too.
He does this transformative thing in the nation.
Jesus comes right after him, takes it to a new level.
Everybody knows what's been happening in Israel.
Even these unbelievers, even these Gentiles.
So, you know how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and power and how he went about doing good and healing all who were under the power of the devil because God was with him.
You guys all know this.
Can you imagine preaching to people who everybody knew about this?
I mean, they definitely had a leg out when they were starting us out.
Then Peter, no, no, no, since we are witnesses, everything that Jesus had done in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem, they killed him by hanging him on a cross.
They undoubtedly had heard this as well.
Wow, what did he do?
But God raised him from the dead on the third day, the day we are celebrating today.
and caused him to be seen.
He wasn't seen by all the people, but by witnesses whom God had already chosen.
There are quite a few, actually, if you look at it.
By us who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead.
And he commanded us to preach to the people and to testify that he was the one whom God appointed as judge of the living and the dead.
All the prophets, talking about the Old Testament, testify about him that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name.
And while Peter was still speaking these words,
He's not stopping at this point asking, would you guys like to believe in Jesus?
Would you like to accept Christ in your life?
We always do that, right?
Give people an opportunity to respond.
He's not even there yet.
He's just talking.
While he's talking, the Holy Spirit came on all those who heard the message.
They are being transformed.
And apparently they immediately start worshiping God.
It says here, the circumcised believers, in other words, the Jews who come with Peter were astonished
that the gift of the Spirit had been poured out even on Gentiles, where they heard them speaking in tongues and praising God.
While he's preaching, before he gets them to repent or anything, they just aren't worshiping God and speaking in tongues.
And that's a pretty quick conversion.
I mean, immediately, how can they believe so quickly?
Again, because they've heard about all the stuff Jesus did.
There are seeds planning in that we don't run typically into people.
But then the Holy Spirit is there immediately to bring that to life and they become believers.
And Peter said, surely no one can stand in the way of their being baptized with water.
They received the Holy Spirit just as we have.
So he ordered that they be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ.
And then they asked Peter to stay with them for a few days.
Now this ratchets up even more.
Then they start going to places nobody had heard about Jesus.
You would think this is going to be almost impossible.
Paul goes to
Grace, and these other places, they haven't heard the stories about Jesus.
They haven't been hearing about John the Baptist, hearing all these miracles.
They don't know people who've been touched one way or the other.
They don't know Jack.
What they do have is the Holy Spirit.
And even into people who had never heard and knew anything about him, they would start to speak to them and tell them about this incredible thing that God has done, how Jesus had died and crossed for their sins.
And immediately the Holy Spirit would bring that to life and they would convert.
And Christianity spreads like wildfire and starts changing the world, even to this day.
No one here has ever heard Jesus speak.
No one here has a cousin who was blind and out conceived because Jesus touched them.
We don't have any of that stuff going for us.
But yet when we hear the message, the Holy Spirit is still present and very real.
And people come to faith and their lives are changed because they believe in Jesus Christ who taught
gave his message was crucified for our sins raised from the dead that we celebrate on this day.
And because of the spirit of God, it's the live and powerful to this day.
We can be still transformed.
I mean, that's really the power of this, right?
I mean, one could argue, well, of course Christianity took off the beginning of everybody had seen it.
And then he said, well, okay, you know, at least when they went other places, they didn't know anything about it, but it was still pretty fresh from the guy's mind.
2000, this is a great testimony to God.
So why hasn't Jesus come yet?
I think God's getting a kick out of this.
Two thousand years later, nobody knows Jack about anything.
Don't have any of these connections.
And people are still having their lives transformed by the message of Jesus, the living Christ as the spirit of God draws people to him.
What an incredible thing.
We've been celebrating this week and we'll continue to celebrate, well, we celebrate all year long, but through Pentecost Sunday.
Now, we're gonna pause now and we're gonna go to our time of communion.
This is when we reflect on what Jesus did for us, okay?
On the night before he was crucified, he's doing the Passover, very traditional Jewish, Seder, you know, they do, and he's doing all the stuff they're supposed to do, but then all of a sudden he starts doing something different, no one had ever seen.
And he gives them bread and said, this is my body, broken for you.
I hadn't been crucified yet.
They probably had no idea what he's talking about.
This is my blood.
when he gave them the wine, just pour it out for you for the forgiveness of sins.
And on the next day, all of this happens.
So even before it happens, he was celebrating this with his disciples.
And something that we are commanded to continue to celebrate.
And the Bible says, before we do this, as believers, we should pause and examine ourselves.
So I want you all to bow your heads, and I'm gonna pray a prayer of forgiveness over all of us.
If you've messed up in any way during this last week, or how long it's been since you've been here, man, make it right, just talk to God, confess your sins to him.
Let me pray.
Heavenly Father, before we partake of the bread in the cup this morning and in obedience to the scriptures, we pause to examine ourselves.
If we have sinned against you in any way, thought, word, or deed, something we've done, maybe something we didn't do that we should have done.
If we've not loved you with our whole heart, if we haven't loved our neighbors as ourselves, we pray for the sake of your beloved son, Jesus, who gave himself as a sacrifice for our sins.
that you would have mercy on us and forgive us of all of our sins.
And as people are reflecting right now, maybe you're visiting this morning, watching online, thinking, man, I've never experienced any of this stuff.
Well, you can experience it right now.
Just in your own words, ask Jesus to come into your life and to forgive you of your sins.
And by the power of the Holy Spirit, God can start that miracle transformation in your hearts right now.
Amen.